# Identifying-Latent-Factors-for-Foreign-Exchange-Rates
Exchange rate acts as the measurement between two different currencies. Just like interest rates and inflation, the exchange rate is also an important determinants of a country's relative level of economic health. Especially in a nation’s level of trade, exchange rates play a vital role, influencing almost every free market economy in the world. Moreover, the foreign exchange market is the most liquid financial market in the world, its turnover in 2016 averaged $5.1 trillion per day. (2016 Triennial Survey, Bank for international settlements). As an important part of the organic system of global market, the fluctuations of exchange rates among different currencies are strongly connected with each other through some other macroeconomics variables, like the trading and investing relations between different countries(regions), economical performances of different countries(regions), etc. We can simply make a bold assumption that exchange rates among different currencies all around the world are related with each other and are all influenced by only a few factors. Using factor analysis can help to find the main factors and build up a model to understand and even predict the variation of exchange rates.
To simplify and generalize the measurement of the value of different currencies, we are motivated to find the common influential factors on exchange rates. With the help of factor analysis model, it is possible to forecast the trend of foreign exchange market. Our group choose latent method to generate the project. We identity a system that contains total 19 kinds of most traded currencies: USD/EUR, USD/JPY, USD/GBP, USD/AUD, USD/CHF, USD/CAD, USD/MXN, USD/CNY, USD/NZD, USD/SEK, USD/RUB, USD/HKD, USD/NOK, USD/SGD, USD/TRY, USD/KRW, USD/ZAR, USD/INR, USD/MYR, and collect data of the currencies from January 2009 to October 2016 monthly. We apply latent analysis method to find out latent relation among these kinds of currencies and hope to generalize several factors to describe the relation.
